# SkinSensPred-pesticides  
Sensitization is a critical endpoint in the safety assessment of new chemicals. Adverse outcome pathway (AOP)-based computational models provide state-of-the-art prediction for human skin sensitizers and are promising alternatives to animal testing. However, little is known about their applicability to pesticides due to scarce pesticide data for model training. Moreover, skin sensitization of pesticides was traditionally tested based on animal testing without human data making the validation difficulty. Direct application of AOP-based prediction models to pesticides may not be appropriate since their original applicability domains were designed to maximize the reliability for human response prediction on diverse chemicals but not pesticides. In this study, we proposed to identify the consensus chemical space with concordant human responses predicted by SkinSensPred and animal testing data for reducing animal testing. A total of 143 pesticides were analyzed using a decision-tree based method with nine fingerprints to identify exclusion rules for chemicals outside of the consensus chemical space. Results showed that the identified graph fingerprint-based rules are able to identify a consensus chemical space with a high concordance of 85% and 100% for leave-one-out cross-validation in a training dataset and independent test in a test dataset, respectively. The reconfigured SkinSensPred with the consensus chemical space can be applied as the first-tier tool for identifying non-sensitizers to reduce around 19.6% animal testing for pesticides.   
Keywords: adverse outcome pathway; skin sensitization; machine learning; SkinSensPred; pesticides; 3R;   
  
Link to SkinSensPred: https://cwtung.nhri.edu.tw/skinsensdb
